[Post] Update sitemaps with dynamic content (#213)
ombulabs/blog: _posts/2019-11-27-update-sitemaps-during-heroku-deploy.markdown

---
layout: post

> title:  "Update sitemaps with dynamic content"

Reviewer: maybe you can change the title to:

```suggestion
title:  "How to dynamically update your sitemap in Ruby"
```

Author: Much better! Thanks for the suggestion @lubc  :)

date: 2019-11-27 12:00:00

> categories: ["seo"]

Reviewer: a few more categories that you can add:

```suggestion
categories: ["seo", "sitemap", "ruby"]
```

author: "cleiviane"
---

> A few months ago I received the task of making the [FastRuby.io](https://www.fastruby.io) sitemap refresh automatically after each deploy. That sounds like it would be pretty straightforward if we didn't have one issue (it's never that easy, right?). For the [FastRuby blog](https://www.fastruby.io/blog) we created a gem that encapsulates a Jekkyl application. The discussion of why do we have a gem for our blog is actually a good topic for a new post. For now, I want to focus in the sitemap task that I had.

Reviewer: Little typo in `Jekyll`. Also you can include a link:

```suggestion
A few months ago I received the task of making the [FastRuby.io](https://www.fastruby.io) sitemap refresh automatically after each deploy. That sounds like it would be pretty straightforward if we didn't have one issue (it's never that easy, right?). For the [FastRuby blog](https://www.fastruby.io/blog) we created a gem that encapsulates a [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) application. The discussion of why do we have a gem for our blog is actually a good topic for a new post. For now, I want to focus in the sitemap task that I had.
```

> A few months ago I received the task of making the [FastRuby.io](https://www.fastruby.io) sitemap refresh automatically after each deploy. That sounds like it would be pretty straightforward if we didn't have one issue (it's never that easy, right?). For the [FastRuby blog](https://www.fastruby.io/blog) we created a gem that encapsulates a [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) application. The discussion of why do we have a gem for our blog is actually a good topic for a new post. For now, I want to focus in the sitemap task that I had.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A few months ago I received the task of making the [FastRuby.io](https://www.fastruby.io) sitemap refresh automatically after each deploy. That sounds like it would be pretty straightforward if we didn't have one issue (it's never that easy, right?). For the [FastRuby blog](https://www.fastruby.io/blog) we created a gem that encapsulates a [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) application. The discussion of why do we have a gem for our blog is actually a good topic for a new post. For now, I want to focus on the sitemap task that I had.
```

Since the blog is a gem, we also need to make sure that whatever tool we use to generate the sitemap covers new blog posts.

In this article I'll show you my journey to figure out how to make everything work together.

<!--more-->

## First of all: what is a sitemap?

According to [Google](https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/156184?hl=en) itself:
> "A sitemap is a file where you provide information about the pages, videos, and other files on your site, and the relationships between them. Search engines like Google read this file to more intelligently crawl your site."

> It tells search engines which pages and files you think are important in your site, and also provides valuable information about these files: for example, when the page was last updated, how often the page is changed, among others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It tells search engines which pages and files you think are important in your site, and also provides valuable information about these files: for example, when was the last time the page was updated, how often the page changes, among others.
```

> It tells to search engines which pages and files you think are important in your site, and also provides valuable information about these files: for example, when the page was last updated, how often the page is changed, and others.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It tells search engines which pages and files you think are important in your site, and also provides valuable information about these files: for example, when the page was last updated, how often the page is changed, among others.
```

> So it's important to keep it always up-to-date.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So it's important to always keep it up-to-date.
```

## Configuring the Gem

> Listing all routes of a website and add them to a XML file seems to be a repetitive task, so I thought that we might have a gem for it already. And we do. It's the [`sitemap_generator`](https://github.com/kjvarga/sitemap_generator) gem, which does exactly what we need: provide a few rails tasks to generate and refresh the application sitemap.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Listing all routes of a website and adding them to an XML file seems to be a repetitive task, so I thought that we might have a gem for it already. And we do. It's the [`sitemap_generator`](https://github.com/kjvarga/sitemap_generator) gem, which does exactly what we need: provide a few rails tasks to generate and refresh the application's sitemap.
```

Installing the gem is pretty easy, just add it to your `Gemfile`:

`gem 'sitemap_generator'`

> run `bundle install` and then run this task:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run `bundle install` and then run this task:
```

> run the `bundle install` and then run this task:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
run `bundle install` and then run this task:
```

`rake sitemap:install`

> that will create a config file with some information to be used by the gem, like the sample below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That will create a config file with some information to be used by the gem, like the sample below:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```ruby
```

require 'sitemap_generator'

SitemapGenerator::Sitemap.default_host = 'http://example.com'
SitemapGenerator::Sitemap.create do
  add '/home', :changefreq => 'daily', :priority => 0.9
  add '/contact_us', :changefreq => 'weekly'
end
```

As you can see, inside the `Sitemap.create` block we need to add all routes of our site.

> If your site has only static content, your job here it's done. You just need to use the rails task from the sitemap_generator itself `rake sitemap:refresh` and a `sitemap.xml` file will be added to the `public` folder.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your site has only static content, your job here is done. You just need to use the rails task from the sitemap_generator itself `rake sitemap:refresh` and a `sitemap.xml` file will be added to the `public` folder.
```

> But in my case new routes will be added every time that someone writes a new article. And as we know, the blog it's a Jekyll application,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But in my case new routes will be added every time someone writes a new article. And as we know, the blog is a Jekyll application,
```

so we can't get the routes using the rake task provided by the `sitemap_generator` gem.

## Generating the sitemap index

> To solve this issue, my idea was to change the `sitemap_generator` config to instead of generate just one `sitemap.xml` file, it would create two sitemaps (one for the blog and one for the website) and add them to a index file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To solve this issue, my idea was to change the `sitemap_generator` config to create two sitemaps (one for the blog and one for the website) and add them to an index file instead of generating just one `sitemap.xml` file.
```

This is how the `config/sitemap.rb` file needs to be changed:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```ruby
```

blog_sitemap_opts = {
  create_index: false,
  default_host: 'https://fastruby.io/blog',
  compress: false,
  sitemaps_path: '',
  namer: SitemapGenerator::SimpleNamer.new(:blog_sitemap)
}

SitemapGenerator::Sitemap.create blog_sitemap_opts do
  pages = Dir["public/blog/**/*.html"]
  pages.each do |blog_page|
    add blog_page, changefreq: 'weekly'
  end
end

sitemap_opts = {
  create_index: false,
  default_host: 'https://fastruby.io',
  compress: false,
  sitemaps_path: '',
  namer: SitemapGenerator::SimpleNamer.new(:sitemap)
}

SitemapGenerator::Sitemap.create sitemap_opts do
  add '/#contact-us', changefreq: 'weekly'
  add '/team', changefreq: 'weekly'

>   # all other important page here

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # all other important pages here
```

  add_to_index "blog_sitemap.xml", host: ENV['SITE_URL']
end

```

> As you can see, in the first `SitemapGenerator::Sitemap.create` block we are listing all files inside the `blog` folder and adding their path to the blog_sitemap file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see, in the first `SitemapGenerator::Sitemap.create` block we are listing all files inside the `blog` folder and adding their path to the `blog_sitemap.xml` file.
```

> As you can notice, in the first `SitemapGenerator::Sitemap.create` block we are listing all files inside the `blog` folder and adding their path to the blog_sitemap file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As you can see, in the first `SitemapGenerator::Sitemap.create` block we are listing all files inside the `blog` folder and adding their path to the blog_sitemap file.
```

After that we are generating the `sitemap` for the website itself, listing all important pages and adding the `blog_sitemap` to the index.

> You can see the sitemap index file resulted by this config [at this link](http://fastruby.io.s3.amazonaws.com/sitemap.xml). It would be like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can see the sitemap index file generated by this config [at this link](http://fastruby.io.s3.amazonaws.com/sitemap.xml). It would be like this:
```

```
<sitemapindex xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns="http://www.sitemaps.org/schemas/sitemap/0.9" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.sitemaps.org/schemas/sitemap/0.9 http://www.sitemaps.org/schemas/sitemap/0.9/siteindex.xsd">
  <sitemap>
    <loc>http://fastruby.io.s3.amazonaws.com/blog_sitemap.xml</loc>
    <lastmod>2019-12-02T17:54:36+00:00</lastmod>
  </sitemap>
  <sitemap>
    <loc>http://fastruby.io.s3.amazonaws.com/sitemap1.xml</loc>
    <lastmod>2019-12-02T17:54:36+00:00</lastmod>
  </sitemap>
</sitemapindex>
```

## And this is it!

> We know that for a better SEO, it is important to have a `sitemap` file. But since this is a static file sometimes it's a little tricky to keep them updated. So I just described my solution for that issue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We know that, for better SEO, it is important to have a `sitemap` file. But since this is a static file sometimes it's a little tricky to keep it updated. So I just described my solution to that issue.
```
